README.md, before:

lwan Web Server
===============

Lwan is a **simple**, **embeddable**, **event-based** web server written in C for glibc/Linux platforms.  It is not designed to be standards compliant; only a small subset of HTTP/1.1 is supported (to enable keep-alive connections).

It can achieve good performance, yielding about **250000 requests/second** on a Core i7 laptop for requests without disk access, and 160000 requests/second when disk I/O is involved; this, of course, with keep-alive connections.  Without keep-alive, these numbers drop dramatically to about 50000 and 45000 respectively.

Portability
-----------

Although it uses [epoll](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Epoll), the Linux variant of sendfile(), and has some inline assembly for coroutines that assumes the Glibc implementation of ucontext_t, it is fairly portable to other event-based pollers, like [kqueue](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kqueue).  An old version of lwan has been [successfully ported to FreeBSD](https://github.com/rakuco/lwan/tree/kqueue-port).  Eventually, some event library such as [libev](http://libev.schmorp.de) or [libevent](http://libevent.org) will be used to aid in portability.  However, portability is not a current goal for this project.

Goal
----

lwan's goal is to provide a testbed for multithreaded, event-based programs.  It is by no means a substitute for real, standards-compliant, web servers.

Usage
-----

Although lwan is [Free Software](http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.html), released under GNU GPL version 2, keep in mind that it is extensively research-quality software.  It **has not been tested beyond synthetic and simplistic benchmarks**, so it may not work as expected when faced with real life workloads.  If you're looking for a web server, try [Apache](http://apache.org), [Cherokee](http://www.cherokee-project.com) or [Nginx](http://nginx.org).

If even with that warning you'd like to try lwan: there is no configuration file.  All settings are made in the `main()` function located in the `main.c` file; you'll need to recompile and restart lwan so that these settings take effect.  Things should be pretty self-explanatory.  Also, `main.c` serves as an example of how you could embed lwan in your program; the embedding API isn't ready yet, so there is no way to integrate main loops.

If no changes are made to the supplied `main.c` file, running lwan will serve static files located on `./files_root` directory.  Lwan will listen on port 8080 on all interfaces.  No indexes will be provided, so if you'd like to use lwan to serve files, either provide the index yourself (by writing a simple shell script) or give whole links to people.

Building
--------

Lwan uses CMake for its build system. To build it, create a build directory, issue `cmake $LWAN_SOURCE_TREE`, and then `make`, as usual. The CMake script should look for libraries like [TCMalloc](https://code.google.com/p/gperftools/) and [Valgrind](http://valgrind.org), and enable/link as appropriate. Passing `-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release` will enable some compiler optimizations, like [LTO](http://gcc.gnu.org/wiki/LinkTimeOptimization) and tune the code for current architecture. Passing `-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug` will generate code suitable to be used under a debugger like [gdb](http://www.gnu.org/software/gdb/).

Commit message:

Update README.md with new benchmark results.

README.md, after:

lwan Web Server
===============

Lwan is a **high-performance** & **scalable** web server written in C for glibc/Linux platforms.  It is not designed to be standards compliant; only a small subset of HTTP/1.1 is supported (to enable keep-alive connections).

It can achieve good performance, yielding about **300000 requests/second** on a Core i7 laptop for requests without disk access. When disk I/O is required, for files up to 16KiB, it yields about **285000 requests/second**; for larger files, this drops to **185000 requests/second**, which isn't too shabby either. These results, of course, with keep-alive connections, and with weighttp running on the same machine (and thus using resources that could be used for the webserver itself).  Without keep-alive, these numbers drop around 6-fold.

Portability
-----------

Although it uses [epoll](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Epoll), the Linux variant of sendfile(), and has some inline assembly for coroutines that assumes the Glibc implementation of ucontext_t, it is fairly portable to other event-based pollers, like [kqueue](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kqueue).  An old version of lwan has been [successfully ported to FreeBSD](https://github.com/rakuco/lwan/tree/kqueue-port).  Eventually, some event library such as [libev](http://libev.schmorp.de) or [libevent](http://libevent.org) will be used to aid in portability.  However, portability is not a current goal for this project.

Goal
----

lwan's goal is to provide a testbed for multithreaded, event-based programs.  It is by no means a substitute for real, standards-compliant, web servers.

Usage
-----

Although lwan is [Free Software](http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.html), released under GNU GPL version 2, keep in mind that it is extensively research-quality software.  It **has not been tested beyond synthetic and simplistic benchmarks**, so it may not work as expected when faced with real life workloads.  If you're looking for a web server, try [Apache](http://apache.org), [Cherokee](http://www.cherokee-project.com) or [Nginx](http://nginx.org).

If even with that warning you'd like to try lwan: there is no configuration file.  All settings are made in the `main()` function located in the `main.c` file; you'll need to recompile and restart lwan so that these settings take effect.  Things should be pretty self-explanatory.  Also, `main.c` serves as an example of how you could embed lwan in your program; the embedding API isn't ready yet, so there is no way to integrate main loops.

If no changes are made to the supplied `main.c` file, running lwan will serve static files located on `./files_root` directory.  Lwan will listen on port 8080 on all interfaces.  No indexes will be provided, so if you'd like to use lwan to serve files, either provide the index yourself (by writing a simple shell script) or give full links to people.

Building
--------

Lwan uses CMake for its build system. To build it, create a build directory, issue `cmake $LWAN_SOURCE_TREE`, and then `make`, as usual. The CMake script should look for libraries like [TCMalloc](https://code.google.com/p/gperftools/) and [Valgrind](http://valgrind.org), and enable/link as appropriate. Passing `-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release` will enable some compiler optimizations, like [LTO](http://gcc.gnu.org/wiki/LinkTimeOptimization) and tune the code for current architecture. Passing `-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug` will generate code suitable to be used under a debugger like [gdb](http://www.gnu.org/software/gdb/).
